# PinterestAccessibleFeature
This is the repo the correspond to my proposed feature for Pinterest to create a more accessible platform for users with vision impairments.
My absolute favorite app in the entire world and where I spend 90% of my daily screen time is Pinterest. Like many others I have a deep love for this app as it is such a great source of artistic inspiration. This app is the first place I turn to when starting any project. Pinterest is at the forefront of inclusivity for social media platforms. One feature they recently implemented, that I was blown away by, was a skin tone range feature. Often in the makeup and beauty industry there is a heavy sway to those with lighter shades. This feature lets users see results that are filtered by shades they selcet.This made the app more equitable as the entire shade range used in the makeup industry is highlighted. Those with tones outside of what is most commonly seen can get personalized inspiration. Pinterest could continue this style of inclusivity to other aspects. When searching for color-related inspiration, it would be great if Pinterest included a feature that allows users with specific visual impairments to search for images based on the colors they can see clearly, while avoiding those they cannot. They could have a feature that allows users to search for inspiration personalized to their visual preferences. Web Content Accessibility Guidelines states that one should “make sure text and images can be enlarged”, which currently is not possible on Pinterest (w3schools). This is a violation of WCAG  as those with vision impairments are not able to equally access pinterests content 


Currently when searching on pinterest the results will load as the image to the left. One way to make this more accessible is to add a color accessibility feature.This feature will be similar to the skin and body type one previously implemented. The new feature will be located in the top bar that contains bubbles for suggestions just as the skin one does. When clicked on, it will pull up a menu that allows the user to customize and filter their results. They can filter for results that are red green color blind friendly and blue yellow colorblind friendly. In addition to this they can turn on high contrast mode which raises the contrast of the entire app and shows results that have the highest contrast. Another aspect they can change is the font. Here they can change all text on the app to the dyslexic font or to a larger font. The final option they have is the ability to turn off anything that has a strobing effect to it and freeze any flashes. This feature was created for users who have epilepsy as these effects can be harmful to them and trigger seizures

To test if these features properly accommodate the needs of users, one could conduct user testing. In this process, the target users—specifically those with low vision, color blindness, or other types of impairments—would use the features while being observed. Their feedback would help identify areas for improvement. Another way to test the design is through automated tools. The new feature can be run through tools that check for its WCAF compliance in regard to color ratios, size of text and other aspects.

Color Accessibility Popup: Dark Mode and Light Mode
. 

Above are Figma prototypes that show the accessibility aspects to be included in this color accessibility feature. The one on the left is the dark mode and the right is the regular or light mode of Pinterest. 

Figma Link : https://www.figma.com/proto/hRiC8rVlW9QOgm4NGxGqFt/Pinterest-Accesability-Feature?node-id=35-7&t=HcQC6IYFBV8OIhvb-1

Part C
HCI Principles Commented in Code: 

These are principles and themes I kept in mind when creating this project. First when doing the screen reader section  I followed the ideas of anthropomorphism by trying to make the screen reader's speech match that of a human's. I did this by including natural pauses between sections. To achieve this, I put a period after each option available to the user to mimic how a human would read off the options, pausing in between each to signal to the listener that they are separate and therefore separate options. I also made sure the tone and speed of the speech being read were natural to a human—not too slow and not too fast, not too loud and not too quiet.

When doing the color contrast checker sections I followed the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) regarding the contrast needed. Although there is no perfect ratio, it states that we should strive for a minimum of 4.5, but 7 is better and preferred. The three levels of WCAG conformance are A, AA, and AAA. They are used to rank conformance to guidelines. These ratios both receive a AAA, the best possible result, as they have the highest level of conformance and are exceptionally accessible. They meet the minimum contrast ratio for text to background at 7:1 (Accessibility Color Alone as Meaning). I used W3Schools to learn about WCAG and get the WCAG values.

Finally while doing the prototype section, I used the Aesthetic-Usability Effect by creating an aesthetic design so the user will perceive the feature as easier to use. I used a harmonious color palette to create a balanced design. I made sure the elements were evenly distributed. Subheadings were indented to differentiate them from the content and bolded. The main title was also bolded, centered, and enlarged to keep the user informed on where they are in the interface. Similar elements are grouped together to make it easy for the user to orient themselves to where features would be. The contrast between the elements chosen is very high, highlighting the bold design.
